# MHNet: Multi-scale Hierarchical Extraction Network for Small Object Detection in UAV Images (submission ID: 9496)

Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) image have the characteristics of small object sizes, dense distributions, and complex backgrounds. Existing detection methods perform well under normal circumstances, but perform poorly when processing UAV images. In this paper, we propose MHNet, a small object detection framework for UAV images, which solves the above problems through multi-scale feature processing and more efficient feature fusion. First, we design a multi-scale hierarchical convolution (MHC) module that extracts features at different scales, layer by layer, providing finer-grained feature information and a larger receptive field. Second, we designed the SPPFC module to capture the multi-scale features extracted by the backbone. We introduce contextual anchor attention (CAA) in the SPPFC module to bolster contextual dependency and fortify feature information across various scales, thereby augmenting the semantic information of high-level features. At the same time, this paper uses an auxiliary detection head, combined with a new feature fusion architecture to improve the prediction ability of small objects. The CAA module downsample the input features of the auxiliary detection head to enhance the feature information of the other two detection heads. This design effectively promotes the fusion of high-level and low-level information. Multiple experiments on VisDrone2019 and UAVDT have demonstrated the effectiveness of MHNet. On VisDrone2019, with mAP and mAP50 reaching 45.8% and 28.2%, respectively. Compared with the benchmark, our MHNet improves mAP and mAP50 by 6.7% and 4.8%, respectively.

authors description:
Ziyang Xing was born in 2001 in Handan City, Hebei Province, China. He obtained his bachelor's degree in 2023. Currently, he is a master's student in computer science and technology at Hebei University of Science and Technology (China). His research interests are machine learning and computer vision.
Xuebin Xu was born in 1999 in Zhoukou City, Henan Province, China. He obtained his bachelor's degree in 2023. Currently, he is a master's student in computer science and technology at Hebei University of Science and Technology (China). His research interests are machine learning and computer vision.
Meiling Sun was born in 1998 in Shijiazhuang City, Hebei Province, China. In 2020, she received her bachelor's degree. In 2023, she received her master's degree from Hebei University of Science and Technology (China). Currently, she is a lecturer at Shijiazhuang Preschool Education College. Her research interests are machine learning and computer vision.
Kuihe Yang was born in 1966, in Handan, Hebei Province, China. He received the B.S. degree from Tianjin University (China) in 1988, the M.S. degree from University of Science and Technology Beijing (China) in 1997, and the Ph.D degree in computer application technology from Xidian University (China) in 2004. From 2005 to 2007,he was a Postdoctoral Fellow in Army Engineering University of PLA (China). He went to Manchester University (UK) for short-term training in 2011. Currently, He is professor and master tutor with Hebei University of Science and Technology (China). His research interests include database application technology, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
